README.md, before:

# ConViT : Vision Transformers with Convolutional Inductive Biases

This repository contains PyTorch code for ConViT. It builds on code from the [Data-Efficient Vision Transformer](https://github.com/facebookresearch/deit) and from [timm](https://github.com/rwightman/pytorch-image-models).

For details see the [ConViT paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2103.10697) by Stéphane d'Ascoli, Hugo Touvron, Matthew Leavitt, Ari Morcos, Giulio Biroli and Levent Sagun.

If you use this code for a paper please cite:

```
@article{d2021convit,
  title={ConViT: Improving Vision Transformers with Soft Convolutional Inductive Biases},
  author={d'Ascoli, St{\'e}phane and Touvron, Hugo and Leavitt, Matthew and Morcos, Ari and Biroli, Giulio and Sagun, Levent},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.10697},
  year={2021}
}
```

# Usage

Install PyTorch 1.7.0+ and torchvision 0.8.1+ and [pytorch-image-models 0.3.2](https://github.com/rwightman/pytorch-image-models):

```
conda install -c pytorch pytorch torchvision
pip install timm==0.3.2
```

## Data preparation

Download and extract ImageNet train and val images from http://image-net.org/.
The directory structure is the standard layout for the torchvision [`datasets.ImageFolder`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/torchvision/datasets.html#imagefolder), and the training and validation data is expected to be in the `train` folder and `val` folder respectively:

```
/path/to/imagenet/
  train/
    class1/
      img1.jpeg
    class2/
      img2.jpeg
  val/
    class1/
      img3.jpeg
    class/2
      img4.jpeg
```

## Evaluation
To evaluate ConViT-Ti on ImageNet test set, run:
```
python main.py --eval --model convit_tiny --pretrained --data-path /path/to/imagenet
```

This should give
```
Acc@1 73.116 Acc@5 91.710 loss 1.172
```

## Training
To train ConViT-Ti on ImageNet on a single node with 4 gpus for 300 epochs run:

```
python -m torch.distributed.launch --nproc_per_node=4 --use_env main.py --model convit_tiny --batch-size 256 --data-path /path/to/imagenet
```

To train the same model on a subsampled version of ImageNet where we only use 10% of the images of each class, add ```--sampling_ratio 0.1```

## Multinode training
Distributed training is available via Slurm and [submitit](https://github.com/facebookincubator/submitit):

```
pip install submitit
```

To train ConViT-base on ImageNet on 2 nodes with 8 gpus each for 300 epochs:
```
python run_with_submitit.py --model convit_base --data-path /path/to/imagenet
```

# License
The majority of this repository is released under the Apache 2.0 license as found in the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.

Commit message:

Updated README file with course information.

README.md, after:

# Reproduction code of ConViT for course EECS 6322
## Model Components to Implement

- The core component of ConViT is gated positional self-attention (GPSA), and ConViT is actually realized by using GPSA to replace the regular self-attention (SA) in ViT. **Therefore, we will focus on the implementation of GPSA**, while the rest of the model and training code will try to keep the same with the official version, so as to retain the maximum experiment reproducibility as well.
- Moreover, **visualization code** and **ablation study code** for experiments will be added.
- 
## Experiments to be conducted
The following experiments are all consistent with those conducted in the paper.

1. Reproducing Top-1 and Top-5 based on different sizes of ConViT, trained from scratch, using ImageNet-1k dataset. (Refer to Table 1 in the paper)
2. Reproducing Top-1 and Top-5 using different scales of subsampled versions of ImageNet-1k. (Refer to Table 2 in the paper)
3. Reproducing non-locality visualization results. (Refer to Figure 5 in the paper)
4. Reproducing ablation results. (Refer to Table 3 in the paper)

# (Below is the original README content)
# ConViT : Vision Transformers with Convolutional Inductive Biases

This repository contains PyTorch code for ConViT. It builds on code from the [Data-Efficient Vision Transformer](https://github.com/facebookresearch/deit) and from [timm](https://github.com/rwightman/pytorch-image-models).

For details see the [ConViT paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2103.10697) by Stéphane d'Ascoli, Hugo Touvron, Matthew Leavitt, Ari Morcos, Giulio Biroli and Levent Sagun.

If you use this code for a paper please cite:

```
@article{d2021convit,
  title={ConViT: Improving Vision Transformers with Soft Convolutional Inductive Biases},
  author={d'Ascoli, St{\'e}phane and Touvron, Hugo and Leavitt, Matthew and Morcos, Ari and Biroli, Giulio and Sagun, Levent},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.10697},
  year={2021}
}
```

# Usage

Install PyTorch 1.7.0+ and torchvision 0.8.1+ and [pytorch-image-models 0.3.2](https://github.com/rwightman/pytorch-image-models):

```
conda install -c pytorch pytorch torchvision
pip install timm==0.3.2
```

## Data preparation

Download and extract ImageNet train and val images from http://image-net.org/.
The directory structure is the standard layout for the torchvision [`datasets.ImageFolder`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/torchvision/datasets.html#imagefolder), and the training and validation data is expected to be in the `train` folder and `val` folder respectively:

```
/path/to/imagenet/
  train/
    class1/
      img1.jpeg
    class2/
      img2.jpeg
  val/
    class1/
      img3.jpeg
    class/2
      img4.jpeg
```

## Evaluation
To evaluate ConViT-Ti on ImageNet test set, run:
```
python main.py --eval --model convit_tiny --pretrained --data-path /path/to/imagenet
```

This should give
```
Acc@1 73.116 Acc@5 91.710 loss 1.172
```

## Training
To train ConViT-Ti on ImageNet on a single node with 4 gpus for 300 epochs run:

```
python -m torch.distributed.launch --nproc_per_node=4 --use_env main.py --model convit_tiny --batch-size 256 --data-path /path/to/imagenet
```

To train the same model on a subsampled version of ImageNet where we only use 10% of the images of each class, add ```--sampling_ratio 0.1```

## Multinode training
Distributed training is available via Slurm and [submitit](https://github.com/facebookincubator/submitit):

```
pip install submitit
```

To train ConViT-base on ImageNet on 2 nodes with 8 gpus each for 300 epochs:
```
python run_with_submitit.py --model convit_base --data-path /path/to/imagenet
```

# License
The majority of this repository is released under the Apache 2.0 license as found in the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.
